[Music]
what's the deepest hole you can possibly
dig do you remember that absolutely
divine feeling you had as a child when
you were digging in wet sand at the
beach deeper and deeper have you ever
wondered where you would have ended up
if you kept digging without stopping
great news even if you never managed to
find out how far down your little tunnel
could go this video will tell you maybe
someone has already used modern
technology to reach the core of the
planet and we just haven't heard about
it yet but before you start digging for
the truth hit the red subscription
button that's how you get to the bright
side of life
where numerous secrets are ready to be
revealed and if you don't want to miss
anything new and exciting ring the
notification bell as well that's how
bright ciders learn about daily updates
on the channel
let's start our dig at a depth of 2.3
feet you'll find numerous Mole tunnels
and rabbit warrens by the way a mole can
dig a tunnel longer than 65 feet in just
one day if we move down a bit more we'll
get to the standard depth of a grave if
we're speaking about Western culture of
course that's about 6 feet down in fact
the actual depth of a grave can vary but
the expression six feet under didn't
appear out of the blue that was the
burial depth in plague infected England
and it was a stipulation of the Mayor of
London in 1665 such a depth was believed
to prevent the spreading of the
infection deep burrowing species of
earthworms can be spotted at a depth of
10 feet one of them draw witih grandis
can grow up to 3.5 feet long
[Music]
gigantic worms haven't managed to scare
us so we're digging further down about
13 feet underground we come across the
tomb of pharaoh tutankhamun it was
discovered by archaeologist Howard
Carter in 1922 20 feet is the maximum
range of a metal detector
even so a high-end detector will
probably spot a car hidden underground
at this depth but if a detector is not
so advanced or if an object is small it
won't work you can still find the roots
of tropical forest plants if you dig 23
feet down tropical trees need such long
roots to store water during dry periods
william little of Hackney aka The Mole
Man
lived in London and managed to burrow 26
feet under his own house he started in
the 60s and this process took him more
than 40 years the web of caverns and
tunnels the man dug spreads more than 65
feet away from the house
almost 40 feet down and you'll see the
deepest burrow made by an animal
surprisingly this super deep hole is dug
by the Nile crocodiles when we arrive at
a depth of 60 feet we can see Beijing's
underground city that's a subterranean
bomb shelter consisting of a vast
network of tunnels and underground rooms
it is situated under the capital of
China at a depth of 66 feet the Paris
catacombs are located they were
discovered in the 18th century these
catacombs contain the remains of more
than 6 million people well this might
sound a bit shocking but at a depth of
110 feet there's an underground farm yes
they use a former bomb shelter to grow
veggies and herbs in London the deepest
swimming pool in the world
the y40 diving pool in motsi grotto
Terme Italy goes 131 feet down if you
fell into this pool when there was no
water in it it would take you three
seconds to reach the bottom do you think
that's too long or not long enough tell
us in the comments below in Cappadocia
Turkey there's an underground complex
that probably dates back to the seventh
century its name is the darin caillou
underground city and it's situated
almost 280 feet below Earth's surface at
328 feet you'll find yourself at the
death in which radioactive waste
stored and just a bit deeper at 346 feet
you'll be able to see where the deepest
metro station in the world is situated
that's our cinema metro station in Kiev
the Channel Tunnel connecting the UK
with France is situated at a depth of
377 feet a wild fig tree that grows at
the echo caves near auric stats ow that
ax has the deepest roots known to people
they go down 400 feet but there's a
hotel room that situated even deeper
than that you can find the deepest hotel
room in the world 508 feet underground
at Salas silver mine in Sweden sounds
crazy right but what will you say about
the deepest half marathon at a depth of
695 feet it took place in 2004 at the
bak Nia Salt Mine in Poland the deepest
railway tunnel is located at a depth of
787 feet that's the maximum depth of the
seek and tunnel in Japan that opened in
1988 and the deepest Road tunnel on
earth is the Ike's and tunnel in Norway
it goes under the sea and reaches 942
feet below Earth's surface even if we
could get down to 1,001 feet we'd still
be in the danger zone for the be 8 to
earth penetrating nuclear warhead that's
its maximum destructive depth at a depth
of 1286 feet we'll see the deepest
hand-dug water well Wooding dean water
well is located near Brighton UK it was
created in 1862 and is also likely to be
the deepest hole in the world ever dug
without the use of any technology
remember this number
2110 feet that's how far down that
deepest natural shaft in the world goes
it's the verdict Lavasa cave in slovenia
if you were unlucky enough to fall down
the shaft your fall will last 11 seconds
before you reach the bottom however even
deeper than that
at 2,000 297 feet 33 Chilean miners
trapped for 69 days it happened in the
San Jose copper and gold mine in Chile
in 2010 all of the miners were rescued
at a depth of 3,800 feet there's a
deepest bat colony in the world about
1,000 brown bats spend every winter in a
zinc mine in New York the deepest
concert in history took place at a depth
of 4,000 166 feet in a mine in Finland
in 2007 the performer was a band called
agonizer then there's home state gold
mine in the USA its death is 4855 feet
in 1965 this mine hosted a successful
experiment scientists detected and
counted neutrinos subatomic particles
from the Sun the deepest coal mine is
the ginger ik2 mine which is located in
the Czech Republic it has a depth of
four thousand nine hundred twenty feet
and closed in 1991 about five thousand
nine hundred twenty feet down and we
arrived at the deepest part of the 227
mile long Grand Canyon its average depth
is five thousand two hundred eighty two
feet the deepest cave known to humankind
is krubera cave in the arabica Massif in
Georgia the cave goes down seven
thousand one hundred eighty five feet at
seven thousand six hundred seventy seven
feet below the earth's surface that
deepest radio broadcast took place it
was held by CBC and happenin Creighton
mined Ontario Canada in 2005 the deepest
laboratory in the world is the jinping
underground laboratory in China and it
is situated 8200 two feet underground
let's dig a bit deeper
voila ten thousand two hundred three
feet down and we see the deepest single
shaft elevator in the world it's located
in the MOA
coats on gold mined in South Africa if
you decide to take the elevator down it
will take you four and a half minutes
but if you opt for a shortcut and jump
into the shaft you'll reach the bottom
and just
25 seconds the deepest known
multicellular organism dwells at a depth
of 11811 feet
that's a worm found in the tout ona mine
in South Africa now let's go deeper down
the tout on of mine in fact it's the
deepest human destination in the world a
trip down to the bottom takes more than
an hour the temperature there will
definitely make you sweat it reaches a
whopping 151 degrees Fahrenheit the
average depth of the oceanic crust is
almost 20,000 feet this is also the
depth of the deepest known microbes they
were found in rocks below China's song
Lao Basin at a depth of about 36,000
feet there's the deepest point of the
ocean Mariana Trench
but people have managed to get even
deeper than that until recently the
absolute champion of the depths was the
Kola super-deep borehole this is the
second deepest artificial hole on the
planet and it's situated in Russia the
depth of this wondrous human creation is
40,000 355 feet that was a project of
the Soviet Union they tried to drill
through Earth's crust however they only
made it 1/3 of the way
after that the temperature reached 356
degrees Fahrenheit and the drill
couldn't operate any longer if you
stumble across this hole by accident you
aren't likely to recognize it its
diameter is just 9 inches and it looks
absolutely nondescript on the other hand
it probably helps to prevent people
accidentally falling down there
if you drop a coin down the shaft it
will fall 450 seconds before it reaches
the bottom and the winner in the
category of the deepest artificial hole
on earth is Z 44 shave Oh oil and gas
well this shaft is drilled down to a
whopping 40,000 604 feet that's 15 Burj
Khalifa's put on top of each other the
shaft is located in the Russian Far East
how deep underground would you agree to
go tell us in the comment section below
hit the like button if this video
managed to impress you and remember to
subscribe to this channel life is always
more fun on the bright side
[Music]